Let's attempt our first exercise.
We're going to define a type that
accepts any valid JSON value, and
I've extracted the important bit
out of the JSON specification.
This describes what is allowed in JSON.
So JSON value must be an object,
array, number, or string, or
one of these three literal names,
false, true, or null.
This is a 100 percent of
what's allowed in JSON.
You don't see functions here.
You don't see classes.
Those are things that
are allowed in JavaScript.
You don't see undefined, for
example, that is not a JSON concept.
So you have some starting point code here.
This is an important line to observe.
Everything below this line,
you can think of as your test suite.
These are a bunch of test cases to see
if you have the following valid JSON
things are valid down here.
These are negative test cases,
they should fail to compile.
And we're getting yelled at here with
ts-expect- error because it should
fail to compile and
it's not failing to compile right now.
So think of this almost like an inverse,
like you need to make this throw or
reject compiling not throw,
but you need to make it,
have a type error in order
to make this test pass.
So in the end, you want everything
below this line all green, right?
Where you can see all of the things
that should fail, will fail, and
all of the things that should pass, pass.
In terms of doing this,
there are two ways you could do it.
One is to click this try button,
which will launch you into
the TypeScript playground.
And this is a totally
freestanding piece of code.
You can see your red squiggles down here.
You can code above this
line to attempt this.
Also, if you go into
your workshop project,
you'll notice we have
chapter 8 in our notes.
And then this gives you
the exact same thing down here.
What you'll wanna do is just,
all of these TS expect error things,
oops, you'll want to do one level of
uncommenting so they light up and
yell at you, as they should,
because right now there's
no compile error and
we want there to be a compile error.
Please feel free to
attempt this on your own.
Don't write any code below this line.
You should just be defining these
types here, and we'll see you and
we'll walk through a solution.
Let's go through the solution
to the JSON types exercise.
I'm gonna actually close
this bottom terminal.
We won't need it.
All right, so
let's try to solve this in pieces.
First, let's work with this JSONObject.
And we might create
a new type here as well.
It's not necessarily gonna be the ones
that sort of add up to this end thing,
but we can call something
a JSON primitive.
And there we go.
Copilot knows exactly what that means.
Maybe I'll just like solve this with
copilot, where you just said JSONValue.
That's a valid tool in the toolbox,
but we'll talk through it anyway.
So let's look at our checklist here.
These are really the primitive JavaScript
types that are possible in JSON.
We've got string, we've got number,
we've got Boolean, these two, and null.
All right, now, a JSONObject,
we can say that that is,
wow, that is using an index signature, and
we can say for any key,
there's a JSONValue.
Now, we haven't defined what JSONValue is,
but you can imagine,
you could have a number here, or
another object, or an array of objects.
So any valid JSONValue can be
in one of these JSON objects.
And in array,
it's gonna be something very similar.
It's just an array of JSONValues.
And then what is a JSONValue in the end?
Well, it's primitives, Or
objects, or arrays.
Let's check our tests.
All the positive ones pass and
no red squiggles for the failing ones.
So we could have avoided
creating this type.
If we wanted,
we could have just done this, and
it would have been perfectly fine.
But I don't know, I kind of like
the explicitness of this and
it makes this last type
very easy to think about.
We can kind of think about the three
different classes of JSONValues that we
could have.
So this is a recursive type.
Why?
Well, object is defined
in terms of JSONValue,
which is defined in terms of object and
the same is true with array.
But it's all possible, and
we can use this to define any kind of
valid piece of JSON that we might have.